You know sexually took care of the case of our app first booting up when our firebase library is deciding
whether or not we are currently signed in or not.
So I think the last thing you have to do is add some functionality to signing user out whenever they
click the log out button.
We've already got a button tag in here right here and we know exactly how to add in some code to fire
whenever the user presses the same.
Remember we pass a prop of on press to the button and inside that on press we can pass a federal function
that will be ran whenever the user presses this thing.
So I expect the button tag here to grow in size just a little bit.
So I'm going to start by putting this thing on a new line like so.
And do you make sure that you don't have a semi colon at the end of the button tag right here.
Otherwise you get a nice big error.
Now we'll add on our on press and we'll pass it on event handler.
So now inside of this federal function we have to figure out how to sign the user out and walk and why
it's not is not the worst thing we have to do.
Not the worst thing in the world.
Oh it is called firebase dot auth dot sign out with the capital.
And that's it.
I think I'll do it.
Another new line here just to make things look nice.
OK.
So now let's test the simulator or refresh.
And now when I click this button I should be signing my user out the instant I signed my user out I'm
going to expect that my authentication state is changing which means in should be getting flipped over
to false and I should be shown the log in form again.
So let's see if that's the case.
Let's see if that's how this works.
Click log out and I see the log in form.
Now I should be allowed to enter and test and test on a password of password
and sign back in.
There we go.
And again I can log right back out.
Perfect.
So that is it for authentication.
That's the whole flow.
Now of course we're missing a little bit of critical parts in here right.
Once you actually sign in it would be great to have some more useful content on the screen.
But for the purposes of this application I just want to show you the general idea behind authentication
firebase and how to handle form input.
We will definitely in the future come back to authentication and figure out how to build more complex
applications where a user can sign in and sign out.
So one last thing I want to do is just do one last walk through this entire application so inside this
application we learned about firebase to start.
We use firebase to create a new project on the firebase console.
We installed the local firebase library and then we initialized it using some amount of configuration
this configuration right here told Tolda use or told firebase that we want to connect to a very specific
project that we had created.
After that we learned about handling text input inside of our loggin form.
And this is where things were pretty strange.
Remember the interesting of the flow we use our state project to tell our input what its value should
be.
So we were not at any point in time really kind of you know pulling the value out of the input at all
points in time we were telling the input hey this is what your value currently is and this is at great
odds with how a lot of other javascript frameworks work.
Normally you'll just let a user type in the input and then at some point in time like when the user
tries to submit the form you'll pull the value out of that input.
So re-act handles this a little bit differently.
Creating inputs like this is referred to as creating controlled components inside of react so does limit
of terminology.
Therefore you next.
We learned how to use conditional rendering to render different stuff inside of our components.
So we added a helper method called render button and then inside of render button we decided whether
or not we wanted to show a spinner or a button one or the other.
This is a super common pattern for handling showing users know different content on the screen.
So as time goes on we'll probably end up with more and more helper functions to decide what content
we want to show to our user.
Fourth we created two new reusable components both the input component and the spinner.
These are fantastic little components.
We're definitely going to reuse them again in the future.
So try not to mess around with them too much.
Finally the last thing we learned and this is my favorite part of the app we made sure to give the user
a lot of feedback about the current state of the app that they were using.
So by that I mean that we were showing the user error message and we were showing them showing them
some nice spinners whenever we were making a request.
So whenever we were making a request if that's kind of like blocking the user experience it's really
good use case to make sure that we show the user a nice spinner on the screen to kind of be like hey
you know we acknowledge your action but something is going on right now.
You know right now we are showing we're loading something or doing whatever.
And while that's occurring great practice to show a spinner to the user.
All right so this app was a lot of fun to build.
And we've got a solid foundation now on the basics of react.
Let's continue the next section where we're going to start getting a lot more familiar with redux